hey this is Jeff sheets you know in the
last video we talked a little bit about
going to our F sharp note to transition
from our one chord n to our four chord D
900d and that f-sharp is actually the
third of D which makes it work but it's
not actually found in our a minor
pentatonic scale we talked about how if
I add the f-sharp to the a minor
pentatonic scale it moves me really
close to the Dorian scale if I add the
other note that we talked about the
beano that actually gives me the Dorian
scale hey Dorian basically based off of
a sharp that's our Dorian scale so we
can play Dorian over over various blues
progressions if we want to stretch out a
little bit so today we're going to look
at a lick that actually uses that other
note the be to create sort of a very
kind of feeling lick when we play that
note the B is either the second or it's
also called the ninth right can we do we
do it again tonight so but we add the
ninth of it tends to make things you
know a little floaty feeling right a
little bit of a different kind of a feel
to it over our a if I'm playing my a
cordon I have that be in there for plan
a seven at the beach it's been a
dominant ninth if I go to the four chord
right which is rd 929 if I add the meat
over the top of that it gives me a D 13
that's kinda cool you can get kind of
some neat stuff with that playing just
as far as a chord progression guys if I
just play those chords instead of rashmi
a 7 p-9 if I had that be in there
seems that no constant makes it sort of
a drone over the top so if the rhythm is
just playing day 7 in the d9 i can add
that note in there on the solo to make
things more interesting so I can
basically create that type of sound um
let's look at their slick I'll show you
this late because it's kind of a cool
little over hey we're gonna go there hmm
which is really starting on my Dino
going to light to the be another Jeannie
Nuss of you guys might recognize that is
basically a G our bed you I drop down to
the B so I'm doing that G arpeggio over
the egg which is kind of cool because it
gives it that a seven sound am I going
hit not be there and there it gives me
it you know that fits over that
it then when we go to the D none let's
do a piece when we need like a double
app or go up to the D octave back down
to that ok so I land on those notes and
I'll play a little bit more door in here
over the track see sorta wasn't supposed
to sound like
you
hey
don't be on that note
see here out adding that night gives at
that kind of feel like it's got that
going on so even though the cords were
just going back and forth between the a
and E I was adding the 9th in there
making a little more interesting so
remember if you add your f sharp and
your beam out into your a minor
pentatonic scale it gives you the a
Dorian scale and you don't have to add
them both all the time in other words I
can play an a minor pentatonic lick back
to regular
here I'm adding those in there sometimes
and sometimes just plain great it's
better tonics gonna give you that real
bluesy feel so if we do this all the
time we sort of lose some of that so if
we're playing the pentatonic but add
those in there so it's a nice transition
takes me between the pentatonic scale
and the modal scale which is in this
case is our Dorian shape okay so check
out the next video we do some cool stuff
with other modal shapes as well so don't
forget to go to the web Jeff sheets comm
check out all the stuff I got there see
you guys later
bye